.\"
.\" "$Id: epm.man,v 1.7 1999/12/06 16:35:11 mike Exp $"
.\"
.\"   Manual page for the ESP Package Manager (EPM).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 1999 by Easy Software Products, all rights reserved.
.\"
.\"   This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"   the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\"   any later version.
.\"
.\"   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"   GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.TH epm 1 "ESP Package Manager" "5 November 1999" "Easy Software Products"
.SH NAME
epm \- create software packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B epm
[ \-f
.I format
] [ \-g ] [ \-n[mrs] ] [ \-s
.I xpmfile
] [ \-v ] product [
.I listfile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBepm\fR generates software packages complete with installation, removal, and
(if necessary) patch scripts. Unless otherwise specified, the files required
for \fIproduct\fR are read from a file named "\fIproduct\fR.list".
.LP
The \fI-f\fR option ("format") specifies the distribution format:
.TP 5
deb
.br
Generate a Debian distribution suitable for installation on a Debian Linux
system.
.TP 5
inst
.br
Generate an IRIX distribution suitable for installation on an system running
IRIX.
.TP 5
portable
.br
Generate a portable distribution based on shell scripts and tar files.  The
resulting distribution is installed and removed the same way on all
operating systems. [default]
.TP 5
rpm
.br
Generate a Red Hat Package Manager ("RPM") distribution suitable
for installation on a Red Hat Linux system.
.LP
Executable files in the distribution are normally stripped of debugging
information when packaged. To disable this functionality use the
\fI\-g\fR option.
.LP
The \fI-s\fR option ("setup") includes the ESP Software Wizard with the
specified XPM image file with the distribution. This option is currently
only available for portable distributions.
.LP
The \fI-v\fI option ("verbose") increases the amount of information that is
reported. Use multiple v's for more verbose output.
.LP
Distributions normally are named
"product-version-system-release-machine.ext" and
"product-version-system-release-machine-patch.ext" (for patch
distributions.) The "system-release-machine" information can be
customized or eliminated using the \fI-n\fR option with the
appropriate trailing letters. Using \fI-n\fR by itself will
remove the "system-release-machine" string from the filename
entirely.
.LP
Debian, IRIX, portable, and Red Hat distributions use the extensions ".deb",
".tardist", "tar.gz", and ".rpm" respectively.
.SH LIST FILES
Each product has an associated list file that describes the files to include
with the product. Comment lines begin with the "#" character and are ignored.
All other non-blank lines must begin with a letter or the percent sign ("%")
as follows:
.TP 5
%copyright \fIcopyright notice\fR
.br
Sets the copyright notice for the file.
.TP 5
%description \fIdescription text\fR
.br
Adds a line of descriptive text to the distribution. Multiple lines are
supported.
.TP 5
%include \fIfilename\fR
.br
Includes files listed in \fIfilename\fR.
.TP 5
%incompat \fIproduct\fR
.TP 5
%incompat \fIfilename\fR
.br
Indicates that this product is incompatible with the named product or
file.
.TP 5
%install \fIscript or program\fR
.br
Specifies a script or program to be run after all files are installed.
.TP 5
%license \fIlicense file\fR
.br
Specifies the file to display as the software license.
.TP 5
%patch \fIscript or program\fR
.br
Specifies a script or program to be run after all files are patched.
.TP 5
%product \fIproduct name\fR
.br
Specifies the product name.
.TP 5
%readme \fIreadme file\fR
.br
Specifies a README file to be included in the distribution.
.TP 5
%remove \fIscript or program\fR
.br
Specifies a script or program to be run before removing or patching files.
.TP 5
%replaces \fIproduct\fR
.br
Indicates that this product replaces the named product.
.TP 5
%requires \fIproduct\fR
.TP 5
%requires \fIfilename\fR
.br
Indicates that this product requires the named product or file.
.TP 5
%vendor \fIvendor or author name\fR
.br
Specifies the vendor or author of the product.
.TP 5
%version \fIversion number\fR
.br
Specifies the version number of the product.
.TP 5
%system \fIsystem[-release] [... system[-release]]\fR
.br
Specifies that the following files should only be used for the specified
operating systems and releases.
.TP 5
%system !\fIsystem[-release] [... system[-release]]\fR
.br
Specifies that the following files should not be used for the specified
operating systems and releases.
.TP 5
%system all
.br
Specifies that the following files are applicable to all operating systems.
.TP 5
f \fImode user group destination source\fR
.TP 5
F \fImode user group destination source\fR
.br
Specifies a file for installation. The second form specifies that the file
has changed or is new and should be included as part of a patch.
.TP 5
c \fImode user group destination source\fR
.TP 5
C \fImode user group destination source\fR
.br
Specifies a configuration file for installation. The second form
specifies that the file has changed or is new and should be included as
part of a patch. Configuration files are installed as "destination.N"
if the destination already exists.
.TP 5
d \fImode user group destination -\fR
.TP 5
D \fImode user group destination -\fR
.br
Specifies a directory should be created when installing the software. The
second form specifies that the directory is new and should be included as part
of a patch.
.TP 5
i \fImode user group service-name source\fR
.TP 5
I \fImode user group service-name source\fR
.br
Specifies an initialization script for installation. The second form
specifies that the file has changed or is new and should be included as
part of a patch. Initialization scripts are stored in /etc/software/init.d and
are linked to the appropriate system-specific directories for run levels 0
and 3. Initialization scripts \fBmust\fR accepts at least the \fIstart\fR
and \fIstop\fR commands.
.TP 5
l \fImode user group destination source\fR
.TP 5
L \fImode user group destination source\fR
.br
Specifies a symbolic link in the installation. The second form specifies that
the link has changed or is new and should be included as part of a patch.
.TP 5
R \fImode user group destination\fR
.br
Specifies that the file is to be removed upon patching.  The \fIuser\fR and
\fIgroup\fR fields are ignored.  The \fImode\fR field is only used to determine
if a check should be made for a previous version of the file.
.SH KNOWN BUGS
EPM does not currently support generation of IRIX software patches.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1999 by Easy Software Products, All Rights Reserved.
.LP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: epm.man,v 1.7 1999/12/06 16:35:11 mike Exp $".
.\"
