.\"
.\" "$Id: epm.man,v 1.1 1999/06/21 14:25:17 mike Exp $"
.\"
.\"   Manual page for the ESP Package Manager (EPM).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 1999 by Easy Software Products, all rights reserved.
.\"
.\"   This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"   the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\"   any later version.
.\"
.\"   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"   GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.TH epm 1 "ESP Package Manager" "21 June 1999" "Easy Software Products"
.SH NAME
epm \- create software packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B epm
[ \-c
.I copyright
] [ \-g ] [ \-l
.I license
] \-r
.I readme
] [ \-v
.I version
] [ \-V
.I vendor
] product [
.I listfile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBepm\fR generates software packages complete with installation, removal, and
(if necessary) patch scripts. Unless otherwise specified, the files required
for \fIproduct\fR are read from a file named "\fIproduct\fR.list".
.LP
Executable files in the distribution are normally stripped of debugging
information when packaged. To disable this functionality use the
\fI\-g\fR option.
.SH LIST FILES
Each product has an associated list file that describes the files to include
with the product. Comment lines begin with the "#" character and are ignored.
All other non-blank lines must begin with a letter or the percent sign ("%")
as follows:
.TP
%copyright \fIcopyright notice\fR
.br
Sets the copyright notice for the file.
.TP
%incompat \fIproduct\fR
.br
Indicates that this product is incompatible with the named product.
.TP 5
%install \fIscript or program\fR
.br
Specifies a script or program to be run after all files are installed.
.TP
%license \fIlicense file\fR
.br
Specifies the file to display as the software license.
.TP 5
%patch \fIscript or program\fR
.br
Specifies a script or program to be run after all files are patched.
.TP 5
%product \fIproduct name\fR
.br
Specifies the product name.
.TP 5
%readme \fIreadme file\fR
.br
Specifies a README file to be included in the distribution.
.TP 5
%remove \fIscript or program\fR
.br
Specifies a script or program to be run before removing or patching files.
.TP 5
%vendor \fIvendor or author name\fR
.br
Specifies the vendor or author of the product.
.TP 5
%version \fIversion number\fR
.br
Specifies the version number of the product.
.TP 5
%system \fIoperating system name(s)\fR
.br
Specifies that the following files should only be used for the specified
operating system names.
.TP 5
%system all
.br
Specifies that the following files are applicable to all operating systems.
.TP 5
f \fImode user group destination source\fR
.TP 5
F \fImode user group destination source\fR
.br
Specifies a file for installation. The second form specifies that the file
has changed or is new and should be included as part of a patch.
.TP 5
c \fImode user group destination source\fR
.TP 5
C \fImode user group destination source\fR
.br
Specifies a configuration file for installation. The second form
specifies that the file has changed or is new and should be included as
part of a patch. Configuration files are installed as "destination.N"
if the destination already exists.
.TP 5
d \fImode user group destination -\fR
.TP 5
D \fImode user group destination -\fR
.br
Specifies a directory should be created when installing the software. The
second form specifies that the directory is new and should be included as part
of a patch.
.TP 5
l \fImode user group destination source\fR
.TP 5
L \fImode user group destination source\fR
.br
Specifies a symbolic link in the installation. The second form specifies that
the link has changed or is new and should be included as part of a patch.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1999 by Easy Software Products, All Rights Reserved.
.LP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: epm.man,v 1.1 1999/06/21 14:25:17 mike Exp $".
.\"
