.\"
.\" Manual page for the ESP Package Manager (EPM) install program.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 1999-2020 by Michael R Sweet
.\" Copyright © 1999-2007 by Easy Software Products, all rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.TH epminstall 1 "ESP Package Manager" "March 11, 2020" "Michael R Sweet"
.SH NAME
epminstall \- add a directory, file, or symlink to a list file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B epminstall
[
.I options
]
.I file1 file2 ... fileN directory
.br
.B epminstall
[
.I options
]
.I file1 file2
.br
.B epminstall
[
.I options
]
.B \-d
.I directory1 directory2 ... directoryN
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B epminstall
adds or replaces a directory, file, or symlink
in a list file. The default list file is "epm.list" and can be
overridden using the \fIEPMLIST\fR environment variable or the
\fI--list-file\fR option.
.LP
Entries are either added to the end of the list file or replaced
in-line. Comments, directives, and variable declarations in the
list file are preserved.
.SH OPTIONS
.B epminstall
recognizes the standard Berkeley
.BR install (8)
command options:
.TP 5
.B \-b
Make a backup of existing files (ignored, default for \fBepm\fR.)
.TP 5
.B \-c
BSD old compatibility mode (ignored.)
.TP 5
\fB\-g \fIgroup\fR
Set the group owner of the file or directory to \fIgroup\fR.
The default group is "sys".
.TP 5
\fB\-m \fImode\fR
Set the permissions of the file or directory to \fImode\fR.
The default permissions are 0755 for directories and executable files and 0644 for non-executable files.
.TP 5
\fB\-o \fIowner\fR
Set the owner of the file or directory to \fIowner\fR.
The default owner is "root".
.TP 5
.B \-s
Strip the files (ignored, default for \fBepm\fR.)
.TP 5
\fB\-\-list\-file \fIfilename.list\fR
Specify the list file to update.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR epm(1),
.BR mkepmlist(1),
.BR epm.list (5).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 1999-2020 by Michael R Sweet, All Rights Reserved.
.LP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
